What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?
A .git folder is created. An initial repository is commited. This is used to start a new repository.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?
Staging area is the intermediate space between repository and working directory. We add new files, reset them before commiting them to repository. Using
staging area we can add testing workflow before commiting changes to repository.
Here I am once again

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical
change?
Staging area is the temporary location where the changes to be commited are placed. By manually adding the files to staging area we will 
get a chance to recheck before commiting the changes. This will ensure everything is going as per our requirement without any side effects

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history
organized? How would branches help?
Branches are important in cases where we don't want to do any changes to the master repository. Say for example we are building an 
experimental feature or we are solving a bug and parallely someone else is working on the new feature.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
Diagrams help us realise which branches will be reacheable. What all branches and have been created on the repository.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in
the diagram the way we do?
The result would be the changes in one branch will be added to the main branch. And further the changes done will be on the main branch. We can represent this using two branch nodes pointing to main branch node.

What are the pros and cons of Git's automatic merging vs. always doing merges
manually?

Manually merging of brnaches give the developer control. So the conflicts can be resolved. Automatic merging will be more prudent where developer is prone to manual errors.